Geoschemes Terrestrial Domain Task Group

Convenor
Francisco Pando - Real Jardín Botánico-CSIC, Madrid, Spain
Core members
Gloria Martinez-Sagarra - GBIF-ES, Madrid, Spain
Lourdes Rollón [Affiliation]
Visotheary Ung - ISYEB, CNRS/Muséum national d’Histoire Naturelle, Paris, France

Motivation
This task group is established within the Geoschemes interest group in order to concretize  the goals and objectives of the IG "Geoschemes": To  update the WGSRPD 2 (World Geographic Scheme for Recording Plant Distributions Brummitt et al., 2001,https://github.com/tdwg/wgsrpd/tree/master ).   Thus, the underlying principle of combining administrative limits and biogeographical concepts in a hierarchical scheme is maintained, whereas we aim for expanding the coverage to marine areas, and including in its scope not only plants but all taxonomic groups . This task group is focused on the  terrestrial domain, but  we work closely with its sibling Task Group “Geoschemes: Marine Domain", to produce a coherent system of global coverage.
 
Strategy
 Within the  sphere of the GeoSchemes interest group,  the WGSRPD 2 units have been reviewed, and feedback  gathered for  non-straightforward cases using the GitHub Issues System. In this way 22 cases were identified and presented. Updated tables created for units levels 1,2,3 and 4 , plus an additional "Changes table", following the same approach and nomenclature used in WGSRPD 2. 
These can be found at: https://github.com/tdwg/geoschemes/tree/main/terrestrial 
 

Goals, Outputs and Outcomes  
To produce a standard documentation in SDS form, as TDWG procedures require. Worth noting here that for  WGSRPD 2 units' full names followed The Times Atlas of the World, ed. 8. 1990. In this iteration we aim to provide alternative vernacular names.
 
Identify and aim to provide ancillary materials to make this standard usable and useful, these may include maps, references, etc.
 

 
Becoming involved
 Please email the convener to express your interest in participating. Please describe your affiliation(s) and any relevant skills or resources you can bring to the effort.
The task group  intends to conduct written exchanges via the TDWG workspace in Slack (Geoschemes) and email, and to reflect advances, issues  and current state of work through its GitHub section


References
Brummitt, R.K., Pando, F., Hollis, S., Brummitt, N.A. (2001). World geographical scheme for recording plant distributions. Edit. 2. TDWG Standard no2. Pittsburg (PA, USA): Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation, Carnegie Mellon University. https://web.archive.org/web/20160125135239/http://www.nhm.ac.uk/hosted_sites/tdwg/TDWG_geo2.pdf
Hollis, S. & R.K. Brummitt. 1992. World Geographical Scheme for Recording Plant Distributions. TDWG Standard no2. Pittsburgh (PA, USA): Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation, Carnegie Mellon University.

